The Joe Rogan experience.
Now you pay attention to like Boston dynamics and all these,
all these different robotic creations that they've made.
Well, they seem to have a pension as far as doing the really sinister looking,
but.
I think all robots that are, you know,
anything that looks autonomous is kind of sinister looking if it can be.
I see the Japan. Yeah.
When like the Japanese have these like big guides rounded.
So it's a different type trying to trick us. Boston dynamics is,
I guess they want the Pentagon to give them funding or something.
Yeah. They look like they're developing terminators. Yeah. Yeah. But,
but what I was thinking is if we do
eventually come to a time where those things are going to war for us,
instead of us, like if we get involved in robot wars,
our robots versus their robots,
and this becomes the next motivation for increased technological innovation to
try to deal with superior robots by the Soviet union or by China.
Like these,
these are more things that could be threats that could push people to some crazy
level of technological innovation. Yeah.
It could. I mean,
I think there are other drivers for technological innovation as well. Um,
that, that seems so plenty. Um,
strong commercial drivers. Let us say, um,
that we wouldn't have to rely on,
on war or the threat of war to kind of stay innovative. Um,
and I mean, there,
hasn't been this effort to try to see if it would be possible to have some
kind of ban on lethal autonomous weapons. Um, just as,
I mean, there are, there are a few set technologies that we have, like there is,
has been a relatively successful ban on chemical and biological weapons,
um, which by and large been, you know, uh, honored and upheld,
um, there, there are kind of treaties on nuclear weapons,
which has limited proliferation. Yes, there are now maybe I dunno,
a dozen, I don't know the exact number,
but it's certainly a lot better than 50 or a hundred countries. Um,
and some other weapons as well, uh, blinding lasers, um,
landmines, cluster munitions. And so, so, so some people think, man,
maybe we could do something like this with, um, lethal autonomous weapons,
killer bots that do we, is that really what humanity needs most now?
Like another arms race to develop like killer bots.
It seems arguably the answer to that is not. Um,
but I've, I've, I've kind of,
it was a lot of my friends are supportive.
I kind of stayed a little bit on the sidelines on that particular campaign
being a little unsure, um, exactly what it is that w I mean,
certainly I'd say it's better if we refrain from having some arms race to
develop these that not. But if you start to look in more detail,
what precisely is the thing that you're hoping to ban?
So if the idea is the autonomous bit,
like the robot should not be able to make its own firing decision. Well,
if the alternative to that is, um,
there is some 19 year old guys sitting in some office building and his job is
whenever the screen flashes fire. Now he has to press a red button.
And then exactly the same thing happens. I mean, I,
I'm not sure how much he's gained by having that extra step. Um.
But it is something, it feels better for us,
for some reason somebody's pushing the button.
But exactly. What does that mean, like in an ever particular fire decision?
Or is it like some, well,
you've got to attack this group of surface ships here and in like,
here are the general parameters and you're not allowed to fire outside this,
these coordinates. Like, I don't know. I mean,
another is the question of, it would be better if we had no wars,
but if there is going to be a war, maybe it is better if it's robots,
the robots, or if, if there's going to be bumping like maybe a one,
the bombs have high precision rather than male precision,
like get fewer civilian casualties.
And operating under artificial intelligence. So.
It depends exactly on how so. I dunno. I mean, on the other hand,
you could imagine it kind of reduces the threshold for going to war.
If you think that you, you wouldn't fare any casualties,
maybe you would be more eager to do it or are,
or if it proliferates and you have these kinds of,
most Skeeto sized killer bots that terrorists have. And
you know, it's not,
it doesn't seem like a good thing to have a society where you have like a facial
recognition thing and then the bot flies out and you just have a kind of
dystopia. So.
Um, yeah, I think we're thinking rationally, if you were thinking rationally,
look given the overall view of the human race that we want peace and
everything to be well, but realistically,
if you were someone who is trying to attack someone militarily,
you would want the best possible weapons that give you the best possible
advantage.
And that's why we had to develop the atomic bomb first.
That's probably why we'll develop the,
or we'll try to develop the killer autonomous robot first.
Yeah, yeah. Let me have it right. It's a fair that the others,
so this is why it's basically a coordination problem.
Like it's hard for any one country unilaterally to make
sure that the world is, is peaceful on short and kind, right. It, it, it,
it requires everybody to synchronize their actions and then you can have
successes like we've had with some of these treaties,
like we've not had a big arms race in biological weapons, uh,
or in chemical weapons. I mean, there have been that were,
there were cheaters even on the biological warfare program,
like the Soviet union had massive efforts there, but still probably, uh,
less use of that and less development. And if there had been no such treaty,
um, so, and are just look at the amount of money being wasted, uh,
every,
every year to maintain these large arsenals so that we can kill one another.
If one day we decide to do it like that, there's gotta be a better way.
Getting there is hard. Yeah.
We would hope that we would get to some point where all this would be irrelevant
because there's no more war.
Yeah. And so if you look at the, uh,
th the biggest efforts so far to, to make that top of this,
after the first world war, people were really aware of that said, this,
this sucks like war. I mean, look at this like a whole generation,
just ground up machine guns, like this,
gotta make sure this never happens again.
So they tried to do the league of nation,
but then didn't really invest it with very much power. Um,
and then the second war, second world war happened. And so then again,
just after that, it's fresh in people's memories saying, well, never again,
this is it, uh, the United nations. And in Europe, the European union,
it's kind of both designed as ways to try to prevent this. But again,
with kind of, maybe in the case of the United nations,
quite limited powers to actually enforce the agreements. And there's a veto,
which makes it hard if it's two of the major powers that are at loggerheads.
Um, so it might be that if that were a third,
big conflagration, that then people would say, well, you know, this time,
you know, we've got to really, uh,
we've got to really put something kind of institutional solution in place that,
that has enough enforcement power. That, that we don't try this.
Yeah. Again, so we don't have a second robot war. So once we get to.
I mean, but, but it kind of memories fade, right? So that's, that's the problem.
Um, so even the cold war, I mean, I grew up, I I'm Swedish.
I remember we were kind of in between. Right. And,
and we were taught to the schools about nuclear fall out and stuff like that.
It's like a very palpable sense that at any given point in time,
that could be some miscalculation or crisis or some something. Um,
and,
and like all the way up to see seniors statesman at the time, this is,
this was like a very real and very serious. And I, I feel this,
that memory of just how bad it is to live in that kind of, um,
hair-trigger nuclear arms, race called war situation has kind of faded.
And now it's like, wow, you know, the world didn't blow up.
So maybe it wasn't so bad after all. Well,
I think that would be the wrong lesson to learn. It's a bit like you're,
you're playing Russian roulette and you survive one and you're saying, well,
it isn't so dangerous at all to play Russian,
rather that I think I'm gonna have another guy, like,
you've got to realize like, well,
maybe that was a 10% chance or a 30% chance that the world would prove up during
the cold war. And we were lucky,
but it doesn't mean we want to have another one.
When I was in high school, it was a real threat. When I was in high school,
everyone was terrified that we were going to go to war with Russia.
It was the big thing. And,
and you talked to people from my generation about that,
and everybody remembers it.
Remember that feeling that you had in high school that like, we, there any,
at any day, something could go wrong.
We could be at war with another country. That's a nuclear superpower. Yeah.
But that's all gone now. Like that, that feeling, that fear,
people are so confident that that's not going to happen. That the sun,
even in people's consciousness. Yeah.
And
then a number of maneuvers are made.
And then you find yourself in a kind of situation where there's like
honored stake and reputation on you feel it can't back down.
And then another thing happens.
And you get into this place where if you even say something kind about the other
side, you saying to be like, you know,
you're a soft or a pinky or alive and on,
on both sides and the other side as well,
obviously they're going to have the same internal dynamic and each side says bad
things about the other. It makes the other side hate them even more.
And these things are done hard to reverse.
Like once you find this dynamic happening, it's kind of almost, oh,
it's not too late. You can try it, but,
but it can be very hard to back out of that.
And so if it can prevent yourself from going down that path to begin with that,
that's much preferable.
When you see Boston dynamics and you see those robots,
is there something comparable that's being developed either in the Soviet union
or in China or somewhere else in the world where there's similar type robots?
Well,
I think a lot of the Boston dynamic thing seems more showy than actually useful
that these kind of, um, animal like things the top around and,
and with 150 decibel or something second,
like if I were a special ops trying to sneak in, like,
I wouldn't want that this kind of big alarm, but,
but I think a lot of action would be more in terms of, um,
flying drones, uh, maybe a submarine stuff, missiles,
um, that kind of stuff.